## Nextjs - Task System


### Environment variables and dependencies

`.env.local` - NextJS variables
```bash
AUTH_SECRET=yourKey
AUTH_GITHUB_ID="GITHUB AUTH ID"
AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET="GITHUB SECRET"
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
SIGNIN_ERROR_URL=http://localhost:3000/login/error
```

By default, `Prisma` uses the `.env` file. 
```bash
DATABASE_URL="file:./dev.db"
```

Install all dependencies:
```bash
npm run i
```
### Generate Database:
```bash
npm prisma migrate dev --name init
```
Create admin and user accounts:
```bash
npx prisma db seed
```
### Run the development server:

Nextjs without `Socket.io`
```bash
npm run dev
```
or  

Custom server with `Socket.io`
```bash
npm run dev:socket
```

Test
```bash
npm run test
```

## Dependencies
Tools used in this project.

### Prisma
For Database with ORM.
### bcryptjs
Password encriptation.
### next-auth 
For authorization and session management. 
### Socket.io
Websockes to update tasks when:

- Create Task  
- Update Task

## Accounts
Accounts generated by `seed` commands.

### Admin
Email: admin@test.com  
Password: test1234  

### User
Email: user@test.com  
Password: test1234  

## Core Requirements

- Admin User  
 [x] Can create, assign, edit, and delete tasks.  
 [x] Can view and manage all tasks.   
- Regular User  
 [x] Can view tasks assigned to them or their group.  
 [x] Can mark tasks as complete. 

 ## Features

 - Task Creation and Assignment (Admin Only)   
   Admin users can create tasks with the following fields:  
 [x] Title: The name of the task.    
 [x] Description: Details of the task.   
 [x] Assigned To: Either a specific user or a group of users.   
 [x] Due Date: The date by which the task must be completed.   
 [x] Priority: Low, Medium, High.    
 [x] Tasks can be assigned to an individual user or a group.  

- Viewing Tasks   
   Admin users can create tasks with the following fields:  
 [x] Admin users can view all tasks, filter by user, group, or status (e.g., completed, pending).    
 [x] Regular users can only view tasks assigned to them or their group.   

- Managing Tasks (Regular Users)  
 [x] Users can mark their assigned tasks as complete.   
 [x] Users can add comments to a task for better communication    

 - Task Status Tracking  
 Tasks can have statuses such as:  
 [x] Pending: Task is newly created.     
 [x] In Progress: Task is being worked on.     
 [x] Completed: Task has been finished by the assignee.  

- Filtering and Sorting Tasks  
 [x]  Users can filter tasks by status, priority, or assigned user/group.   
 [x]  Admin users can also sort tasks by due date, priority, or creation date.  

 - Responsive User Interface  
Use Tailwind CSS and Flowbite components to create a simple and responsive UI.   
The application should have:   
[x]  A navbar to navigate between different sections.   
[x]  A dashboard page for viewing and filtering tasks.  
[x]  A task creation page for Admin users.  

- Basic Authorization  
[x]  Admin users should be able to access the task creation and management pages, while regular users should only have access to the task list assigned to them.  
 
- Database  
[x]  Use a lightweight database (e.g., SQLite) to store tasks.
Each task should be stored as a record in the database, with fields for title, description, assigned to, due date, priority, status, and comments.

### Optional items

[x] Real-Time Updates: Add functionality for real-time updates using Server-Sent Events (SSE) or WebSockets to notify users when new tasks are assigned.  
[x] Role-Based Authentication: Implement simple role-based access control for Admin vs. Regular User capabilities.  
[ ] Drag-and-Drop Task Management: Implement a feature that allows users to change task status using drag-and-drop.  